README.md, before:


# An introduction to PySpark
### Level: Beginner
### [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UsU5pERa6HbD_qgXgt0kP5c9XZx90CNIBuGoTDgNeVQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Project description
PySpark is a distributed data processing engine widely used in Data Engineering and Data Science. Another way to think of PySpark is a library that allows processing large amounts of data on a single machine or a cluster of machines. We will go through the basic concepts and operations so you will leave the workshop ready to continue learning on your own.

## Setup:
 
To set up your environment, create an account at https://community.cloud.databricks.com/

Then import the [notebook](https://databricks-prod-cloudfront.cloud.databricks.com/public/4027ec902e239c93eaaa8714f173bcfc/583179271718016/1249435828050903/222117274820398/latest.html) like on the gif:

![](workshop/pictures/databricks_setup.gif)

Upload the file on `workshop/SalesRecords.csv`:

![](workshop/pictures/databricks_upload.gif)
(There is no need to create a table after uploading a file)

You should be good to go back and start running your notebook now :)

Pro tip: run a cell with `Shift + Enter`

## Requirements
Create a trial account on https://community.cloud.databricks.com/

## Usage
* Clone the repository
* Follow the instructions to set up your notebook

## Credits
This workshop was set up by @pyladiesams and https://github.com/nataliapipas

## Option B

If, for some reason, Databricks is not available, we'll use a Zepl notebook.

Go to `My Notebooks` on your account on https://www.zepl.com/

![](workshop/pictures/your-notebooks.png)

Click `Import` in the top right corner of the page

![](workshop/pictures/import.png)

Name your notebook and use `Upload file` to import the file on `workshop/pyspark.zpln`
(it can also be found [here](https://www.zepl.com/viewer/notebooks/bm90ZTovL25hdGFsaWFwaXBhc0BnbWFpbC5jb20vZjNkNDgwZjFlNzA4NDc2NTkzZjAxMzQwOThlZWE0MTcvbm90ZS5qc29u)).

![](workshop/pictures/zpl.png)

On the notebook page, click the folder icon on the left and select `Upload file`

![](workshop/pictures/upload.png)

Upload the file on `workshop/SalesRecords.csv`

You should be good to start running your notebook now :)

(Pro tip: run a cell with `Shift + Enter`)

## Option C

Wow, have we really reached plan C? Alright, let's go local.

Requirements: Python 3 installed

Steps:

1) Create and activate a virtual environment with

```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install the requirements with

```
pip install -r workshop/requirements.txt
```

Make your virtual environment available on Jupyter with

```
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=venv
```

Start your notebook with

```
jupyter-lab workshop/notebook.ipynb
```

Commit message:

Added the setup with docker in readme

README.md, after:


# An introduction to PySpark
### Level: Beginner
### [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UsU5pERa6HbD_qgXgt0kP5c9XZx90CNIBuGoTDgNeVQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Project description
PySpark is a distributed data processing engine widely used in Data Engineering and Data Science. Another way to think of PySpark is a library that allows processing large amounts of data on a single machine or a cluster of machines. We will go through the basic concepts and operations so you will leave the workshop ready to continue learning on your own.

## Setup:
 
To set up your environment, create an account at https://community.cloud.databricks.com/

Then import the [notebook](https://databricks-prod-cloudfront.cloud.databricks.com/public/4027ec902e239c93eaaa8714f173bcfc/583179271718016/1249435828050903/222117274820398/latest.html) like on the gif:

![](workshop/pictures/databricks_setup.gif)

Upload the file on `workshop/SalesRecords.csv`:

![](workshop/pictures/databricks_upload.gif)
(There is no need to create a table after uploading a file)

You should be good to go back and start running your notebook now :)

Pro tip: run a cell with `Shift + Enter`

## Requirements
Create a trial account on https://community.cloud.databricks.com/

## Usage
* Clone the repository
* Follow the instructions to set up your notebook

## Credits
This workshop was set up by @pyladiesams and https://github.com/nataliapipas

## Option B

If, for some reason, Databricks is not available, we'll use a Zepl notebook.

Go to `My Notebooks` on your account on https://www.zepl.com/

![](workshop/pictures/your-notebooks.png)

Click `Import` in the top right corner of the page

![](workshop/pictures/import.png)

Name your notebook and use `Upload file` to import the file on `workshop/pyspark.zpln`
(it can also be found [here](https://www.zepl.com/viewer/notebooks/bm90ZTovL25hdGFsaWFwaXBhc0BnbWFpbC5jb20vZjNkNDgwZjFlNzA4NDc2NTkzZjAxMzQwOThlZWE0MTcvbm90ZS5qc29u)).

![](workshop/pictures/zpl.png)

On the notebook page, click the folder icon on the left and select `Upload file`

![](workshop/pictures/upload.png)

Upload the file on `workshop/SalesRecords.csv`

You should be good to start running your notebook now :)

(Pro tip: run a cell with `Shift + Enter`)

## Option C

Use docker if you don't have spark installed on your computer.

cd where the docker-compose.yml file is.

In the terminal, run the command `docker-compose up` which will automatically start building the image.

Click the link which can also be reached with `localhost:8888`

Type in the password `pyspark`

When you're done, close everything down by typing `docker-compose down -v` in the terminal.

## Option D

Wow, have we really reached plan D? Alright, let's go local.

Requirements: Python 3 installed

Steps:

1) Create and activate a virtual environment with

```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install the requirements with

```
pip install -r workshop/requirements.txt
```

Make your virtual environment available on Jupyter with

```
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=venv
```

Start your notebook with

```
jupyter-lab workshop/notebook.ipynb
```
